A contract overview (#10)
aragon/builders-portal: docs/core/04-contracts-overview.md

  Overview of the aragonOS DAO framework infrastructure and core primitives.
</p>

</div>

### Core Primitives

#### DAO Related

| Contract          | Description                                                                    | Relationship                |
| :---------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------- |
| `DAO`             | The identity and basis of an organization containing the core functionalities. | registered by `DAORegistry` |
| `IDAO`            | The interface a DAO in needs to fulfill in the AragonOS framework.             | fulfilled by `DAO`          |
| `CallbackHandler` | Adds functionality that allows registering callbacks for .                     | owned by `DAO`              |

#### Permission Related

| Contract            | Description                                                                                         | Relationship                                         |
| :------------------ | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------- |

> | `PermissionManager` | A permission manager (an access control list (ACL) that `DAO` and other contracts can inherit from. | owned by `DAO`                                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `PermissionManager` | A permission manager (an access control list (ACL)) that `DAO` and other contracts can inherit from. | owned by `DAO`                                       |
```

| `DaoAuthorizable`                | Adds a constructor to `DaoAuthorizableBase`.                                                                                                                     | used by `Plugin`                     |
| `DaoAuthorizableCloneable`       | Adds an internal initializer to `DaoAuthorizableBase`.                                                                                                           | used by `PluginCloneable`            |
| `DaoAuthorizableBaseUpgradeable` | Provides a `DAO` variable, setter, and meta-transaction compatible modifier for upgradeable contracts to authorize function calls through an associated DAO.     | used by `DaoAuthorizableUpgradeable` |
| `DaoAuthorizableUpgradeable`     | Adds an internal initializer method and storage gap to `DaoAuthorizableBaseUpgradeable`.                                                                         | used by `PluginUUPSUpgradeable`      |

### Framework Infrastructure

#### DAO Creation

| Contract      | Description                                                | Relationship    |
| :------------ | :--------------------------------------------------------- | :-------------- |

> | `DAOFactory`  | A template to setup plugins for a DAO using our framework. | creates `DAO`   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `DAOFactory`  | A global helper to deploy new DAO instances and bootstrap the initial plugins, using our framework. | creates `DAO`   |
```

> | `DAORegistry` | Registers DAOs                                             | registers `DAO` |

Reviewer: Would that still be accurate?

```suggestion
| `DAORegistry` | Registers DAOs and assigns an ENS subdomain                                            | registers `DAO` |
```

#### Plugin Management

| Contract             | Description                                                         | Relationship                                         |
| :------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------ | :--------------------------------------------------- |

> | `PluginSetup`        | A template to setup plugins for a DAO using our framework.          | `Plugin`, `PluginCloneable`, `PluginUUPSUpgradeable` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `PluginSetup`        | A template so that plugin developers can bootstrap plugins and helpers for a DAO using our framework.          | `Plugin`, `PluginCloneable`, `PluginUUPSUpgradeable` |
```

> | `PluginRepo`         | Versions a plugin by storing the associated `PluginSetup` contract. | versions `PluginSetup`                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `PluginRepo`         | A repository of a plugin's versions. Each version contains the corresponding `PluginSetup` contract. | versions `PluginSetup`                               |
```

| `PluginRepoFactory`  | Creates `PluginRepo` contracts                                      | creates `PluginRepo`                                 |
| `PluginRepoRegistry` | Registers `PluginRepo` contracts                                    | registers `PluginRepo`                               |

### Plugin Implementations

| Contract             | Description                                                                                  | Relationship                                                                    |
| :------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `MerkleMinter`       | Mints `ERC-20` tokens and distributes them on merkle trees using `MerkleDistributor` clones. | is `PluginUUPSUpgradeable`, uses `MerkleDistributor`, is used by `TokenFactory` |

> | `MerkleDistributor`  | Distributes claimable ERC-20 tokens via a merkle tree.                                       | is `PluginUUPSUpgradeable`                                                      |

Reviewer: Are they really a plugin? I see them as helpers of the ERC20 voting plugin (maybe below in utilities?)

Author: Yes, they are plugins and I would argue that they should stay as such when `TokenFactory` is refactored (https://aragonassociation.atlassian.net/browse/APP-1144).

Reviewer: I have been looking at them as a helper of the ERC20 plugin since the beginning, but let's leave it aside and get moving :+1:

| `MajorityVotingBase` | Contains abstract, majority voting functionality.                                            | is parent of `ERC20Voting` and `AllowlistVoting`                                |
| `ERC20Voting`        | A majority voting plugin using ERC-20 tokens for the census.                                 | inherits from `MajorityVotingBase`                                              |

> | `AllowlistVoting`    | A majority voting plugin using a list of allowed addresses for the census.                   | inherits from `MajorityVotingBase`                                              |

Reviewer: I would start with these 2 first, then show the rest in a separate table

Author: Amended
